# ReactDOMClient

The `react-dom/client` package provides client-specific methods used for
initializing an app on the client. Most of your components should not need to
use this module.

```js
import * as ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
```

If you use ES5 with npm, you can write:

```js
var ReactDOM = require("react-dom/client");
```

## Overview

The following methods can be used in client environments:

- [createRoot()](#createroot)
- [hydrateRoot()](#hydrateroot)

### Browser Support

React supports all modern browsers, although some polyfills are required for
older versions.

:::note

We do not support older browsers that don’t support ES5 methods or microtasks
such as Internet Explorer. You may find that your apps do work in older browsers
if polyfills such as es5-shim and es5-sham are included in the page, but you’re
on your own if you choose to take this path.

:::

## Reference

### createRoot()

```js
createRoot(container[, options]);
```

Create a React root for the supplied `container` and return the root. The root
can be used to render a React element into the DOM with `render`:

```js
const root = createRoot(container);
root.render(element);
```

`createRoot` accepts two options:

- `onRecoverableError`: optional callback called when React automatically
  recovers from errors.
- `identifierPrefix`: optional prefix React uses for ids generated by
  `React.useId`. Useful to avoid conflicts when using multiple roots on the same
  page. Must be the same prefix used on the server.

The root can also be unmounted with `unmount`:

```js
root.unmount();
```

:::note

`createRoot()` controls the contents of the container node you pass in. Any
existing DOM elements inside are replaced when render is called. Later calls use
React’s DOM diffing algorithm for efficient updates.

`createRoot()` does not modify the container node (only modifies the children of
the container). It may be possible to insert a component to an existing DOM node
without overwriting the existing children.

Using `createRoot()` to hydrate a server-rendered container is not supported.
Use hydrateRoot() instead.

:::

### hydrateRoot()

```js
hydrateRoot(container, element[, options])
```

Same as `createRoot()`, but is used to hydrate a container whose HTML contents
were rendered by `ReactDOMServer`. React will attempt to attach event listeners
to the existing markup.

`hydrateRoot` accepts two options:

- `onRecoverableError`: optional callback called when React automatically
  recovers from errors.
- `identifierPrefix`: optional prefix React uses for ids generated by
  `React.useId`. Useful to avoid conflicts when using multiple roots on the same
  page. Must be the same prefix used on the server.

:::note

React expects that the rendered content is identical between the server and the
client. It can patch up differences in text content, but you should treat
mismatches as bugs and fix them. In development mode, React warns about
mismatches during hydration. There are no guarantees that attribute differences
will be patched up in case of mismatches. This is important for performance
reasons because in most apps, mismatches are rare, and so validating all markup
would be prohibitively expensive.

:::
